Let's see it in action.
Start by cloning the code from the link found in the course notes section.
The first step is to create an entity class to contain the joke data.
I've opened my project,
and I've navigated to joke.Java.
This is a simple Java class that matches the JSON response returned from the jokes API.
So we have an Id, the type,
the setup, and the punchline.
Now, the next step is to convert the JSON returned from
the jokes API to Java so that we can access those fields from inside of our code.
So in order to bind the JSON data to this jokes type,
we're using something called "Jackson",
and the field names and the joke class must match
exactly to the key names in the JSON document.
So like I mentioned,
we're using Jackson for this binding.
So let's navigate to the Maven palm file,
and scroll down to lines 33 through 36.
So this is where I include the dependency for Jackson.
Jackson is a library that serializes or maps Java objects to JSON and vice versa.
So we're enabling Jackson by adding this dependency in the Maven file,
and like I said, this allows us to map the JSON to Java.
So now, let's navigate to ConsumingApplication.Java,
this is the main SpringBootApplication class.
All I've done here is I've updated it to use the command line runner run method.
So this callback method is executed by Spring Boot on startup,
and notice all it does,
it makes a call out to the jokes API,
here on line 31,
and it's using the rest template that we discussed.
The rest template builder here on line 24,
this is injected by spring.
If you use it to create a rest template,
then you will benefit from all of the auto configuration that happens in Spring Boot,
with message converters, and requests factories etc.
So it just makes the process very easy.
So here on line 31,
after I'm calling the jokes API using the rest template,
all I do is print the joke out to the screen.
So let's run this application,
and we should see the output down here in this bottom window.
So in just a few more moments,
we should see the output.
Here we see it at the very bottom,
we see the Id, the type,
the setup, what type of music do balloons hate?
Then the punchline pop music.
So that's how easy it is to consume a RESTful API in Spring Boot using the REST template.